okay welcome back now winter is here and
everyone needs to be wise and driving
under extreme conditions when snow and
ice arrives we have a driving expert
here and we also have a a guinea pig now
especially young drivers need to know a
few things because they're inexperienced
and there's some older drivers who may
not be familiar with some of the new
features on cars now 10 Silva of the
beaver run motor whoops motor sports
complex is here helping us get ready for
winter driving and he also has patty
white in the car right now you're going
to show are a few things Tim right okay
okay we're going to do that howdy how
are we doing okay yeah I do some driving
I'm ready you already do some driving we
talked earlier about a couple of things
that we want to talk about in relation
to driving one is using the steering
wheel properly and I see the way you've
got the steering wheel grip right now
and you have your fingers inside the
inside the wheel there don't you yes I
do and what do we talk about with that
well if i do this i might break my
thumb's yeah so it's better to keep your
fingers outside now another thing I
Drive like that all the time oh no no
you shouldn't do this right all right
now we're also going to talk about
something else and we'll see if you do
this one okay all right when you're when
you watch people with an intersection
how do you sometimes see them turn the
steering wheel like that and why is that
probably not a good idea because the
steering wheel could come back and break
your arm catch your own but if the if
the airbag should go off right yeah yeah
so that's that's probably not a good
idea to do it that way so what we want
to do is make sure that we that we use a
steering wheel properly having a light
touch keeping our hands usually probably
around nine and three o'clock right
right but the other thing that people
have problems with in the winter time
especially is getting the car stock time
right so that means what we want to make
sure we use the brakes effectively right
we want to keep our heel on the floor
mm-hmm and go from the gas pedal to the
brake and rake lightly yeah so did you
break lightly right and that's why do we
want to do that so we keep control and
to keep the tires gripping around right
right because what happens is people
will put the brakes on too hard and even
with ABS the tire will skid and come off
skin and come off and as it does that
you don't have as good at control as you
do by just breaking even late now one of
the things that we as I know Brenda
you're not a more mature driver but I am
and and my parents told me to pump the
brakes and so we talked about that out
of evil run and we say that's not a good
idea to pump the brakes because what
happens when you're pumping the brakes
if you have your foot off the brake the
car is not going to stop all right right
so we want to keep good steady pressure
on the brakes as we're trying to stop
now okay Katie Katie okay now we talked
also about driving a little bit haven't
we in the wintertime and we've got this
steering wheel that we use and what are
one of the things that we talked about
is very important in driving out in in
the winter time making sure that you
look out really far in front of the car
and not just down at your wheel yeah and
why would we want to do that so that you
can anticipate things before they happen
that's right you can see farther out you
can see and anticipate and a good driver
he anticipates right right right now
what else does this help us do if we
start to skid well then you know you're
you know when it's coming so you can
start it before it's too late right and
now if you're driving along and the car
starts to turn a little bit because
we're in skidding what do you do then
you turn your wheel with your car yeah
you turn the wheel with the car so that
what happens is if the rear end starts
to skid a little bit and you're looking
up and instead of looking straight at
the road the roads at an angle you turn
the wheel so that a trick and then what
happens as soon as it straightens up
again you straighten the wheel up again
and that's one of the keys to being able
to drive a car when it's skidding huh my
name is Misha can thank you so much Tim
Jane come out i need a lesson thank you
thank you so much for joining us this
morning all right now for more
information on learning how to drive on
snow and ice and preparing your car for
winter you can contact the beaver run
motor sports complex at 724 535 1000 or
go to KD k calm we have information for
you posted on our website there on our
pittsburgh today live page